[README.md](https://github.com/majumper87/majumper87.github.io/blob/main/README.md) - [Code Review](https://youtu.be/V6MCl8RoXNo) - [Software Engineering/Design](https://github.com/majumper87/majumper87.github.io/blob/main/SoftwareEngineeringAndDesign.md) - [Algorithms and Data Structures](https://github.com/majumper87/majumper87.github.io/blob/main/AlgorithmsAndDataStructure.md) - [Databases](https://github.com/majumper87/majumper87.github.io/blob/main/Databases.md)

# Self Assessment

I started out by first obtaining IT certifications - CompTIA A+ and Network+. As I continued to learned more, my thirst for knowledge led me to want to obtain a degree in Computer Science. The Computer Science course program has opened more doors than I know to walk through. Even in this ePortfolio, it only showcases use of Python, HTML, C# and XAML, MongoDB, and SQL. These are just a few of the examples of the languages that I worked with in my time with SNHU.

When it comes to working in a team environment, the best class I had was with course CS 465 Full Stack Dev I. In this course, much of the coursework had older versioning of the material we were learning - the MEAN stack. My classmates and I made it through the course because of how much we collaborated with each other in the discussions to solve issues with installing and setting up our environment to begin working with the MEAN stack. I had time before the course had started, so I had already solved most of the issues that we ran into in the first few weeks. Later on in the course is when I started to struggle, but was also able to rely on the help of my fellow classmates.

In the majority of the coursework at SNHU, I also had the opportunity to learn how to speak to stake holders. In this area, I learned that the best way to get as much information from a stakeholder is to keep as much of the technical aspects to a minimum. At a high level, the stakeholder is concerned about what they want or need from a program or software, and not so much in how it works underneath. In doing so, it also gives the stakeholder the opportunity to ellaborate on the overall project as a whole by not getting overwhelmed in the details that will be further discussed with the implementing teams and developers.

In regards to Data Structures and Algorithms, my favorite course was Discrete Mathematics. I would like to revisit this subject becuase it has deep roots in Computer Science. In this course, we went over mathematical logic, set theory, and graph theory. Truth tables are a prime example of how if/else and case statements work in computer logic. The logic can become ever more complex when working with "and" and "or" conditionals within the same evaluation. Secondly, when working with databases, I am constantly reminded of Set Theory. Set Theory works with a collection of objects to which I relate to working with joins - left, right, inner, self - and unions. In graph theory, we begin to form the relation of networks, data organization and computation.

When working with Software Engineering and Design, I am reminded of working with UML - Unified Modeling Language - and Use Case Diagrams. With these, I learned that it is helpful to depict a user's interaction with an environment and the relation of parent/child classes before a single line of code is written. These are also helpful tools when speaking with stakeholders in that they can demonstrate, at a high level, how the system will work and it's design. With class diagrams, we start to speak more on the engineers level in that we begin the breakdown of class attributes and relationships.

Learning how to work with databases has been another large interest in that data seems to be at the very core of Computer Science. How we store that data can come in many forms, but in regards to databases, we have Relational and Non-Relational databases. Each type of database has their own use case. The main question when it comes to choosing between the two types of databases revolves around how much data, and how often does the data change. In the case for the course "Intruductory to SQL", I learned how to create multiple tables that stored individual components of data along with keys and foreign keys to help with joining the data into other tables - examples are buildings, courses, teachers/students, etc. However, in the Full Stack Development course, working with a non-relational database such as MongoDB, it was faster to bring up a website from scratch in that the data did not need to be structured and only needed to rely on key/value pairs.

Overall, I have had the opportunity to learn numerous languages, concepts, and fields of study in the realm of Computer Science. In my ePortfolio, I chose to demonstrate how one project that was done using Python, Dash Plotly, and MongoDB, could also be done with the use of C#, XAML and T-SQL with the use of a WPF - Windows Presentation Foundation - application with an attached SQL database.
